Transportation can vary
greatly between organizations.
There may be variation in network, nodes,
kinds of vehicles, specific carriers,
kinds of services, relationships, and rates.
Regardless of the differences however,
transportation management generally involves
negotiating carrier rates, which may be short
or long-term contracting for shipments,
and establishing partnering relationships,
as well as booking carriers to transport specific shipments.
Loading and unloading the transport vehicles
is part of the process, though they may
be considered warehousing activities
or transportation management activities,
depending on the individual organization.
Transportation management also involves
physically transporting loads from load point
to unload point, while taking port
or airfield operations into account.
And finally, providing transportation systems support,
including document preparation and tracking.